# EEG Data Generator

This repository has files associated with a single channel artificial EEG data generator. This generator was used to create samples of EEG data with different bandpower for Neurotech Lab recruitments. The data it generates has a sampling frequency of 200Hz and has a signal length of 45s. So, there are 9000 data points in total per file.

## generator.py

This code generates an arbitraty EEG signal of the 4 primary bandpowers, and also some noise. Furthermore, it can generate frequencies overlapping with 2 bandpowers to create a smooth transition between them for a more realistic signal. The bandpowers and their description are as follows

- **Delta (0.5-4 Hz)** : Dominant during deep sleep and in pathological conditions such as brain injuries.
- **Theta (4-8 Hz)** : Related to drowsiness, light sleep, and certain cognitive tasks such as memory encoding.
- **Alpha (8-13 Hz)** : Associated with relaxed wakefulness and is most prominent in the posterior regions of the brain when the eyes are closed.
- **Beta (13-30 Hz)** : Linked to active thinking, concentration, and motor activity.
- **Gamma (30-100 Hz) // Noise** : Associated with high-level cognitive functions, including perception and consciousness.

The code then takes a **`Linear Combination`** of these bands along with the transition signals to compile the final data sample. The coefficients of this linear combination are hard coded in the script, and can be changed according to type of signal required.

### Data Generation

The data is generated by taking a linear combination of tens-of-thousands of sine waves. A sine wave of an arbitraty amplitude between 0 and 1 with and a phase of -\pi to \pi of all frequencies in the specified band is generated, with a `frequency resolution of 1/1000th of a Hz`. Then these signals are added over all frequencies of the band to create a signal of that particular band. Then a linear combination of all the bands with noise and overlap signals gives the final data.

## plotter.py and tester.py

Plotter simply plots the data over 45s, while tester is the file that does signal processing over the generated data for verification. Tester was the expected submission for the technical round of Neurotech Lab recruitments, which has 2 signal processing algorithms, Welch Periodogram and Multitaper Analysis to obtain the results.

## Other files

The `.txt` files are the files generated from generator.py and [tech-task.md](/tech_task.md) contains the task provided to the applicants with links to the files and other background.